The script get_biomart_orthologs.pl takes advantage of RESTful access to BioMart 
for retrieving ortholog gene calls from Ensembl Genomomes Biomart services.
Required inputs are query species name, target species name, gene list, and json
file with necessary meta information for describing BioMarts.

The needed json file is biomart_homologs.json.  This file (and the more readible
biomart_homologs.dumper) is generated using the script "scan_biomart.pl".  This 
script must be run periodically (with each release update of Ensembl Genomes).  It
scans on-line metadata (see http://www.biomart.org/martservice.html) to "discover"
available mart services, species datasets, and homolog attributes, and stores the
data in JSON format.

Requested species names must match those given in the biomart_homologs.json file.
These are mostly in binary genus species lower-case format, e.g. "zea mays", but
for bacteria can also include strain information, e.g "escherichia coli o139:h28".
Available species combinations can also be seen in the biomart_homologs.dumper
file.

Gene lists are given as a file containing one gene id per line.  The gene id's must
correspond to annotation datasets in Ensembl.  This meta-information is also
available in the biomart_homologs.json file.

The current biomart_homologs.json file supports search of the following mart
services:
Ensembl Plants
Ensembl Bacteria
Ensembl Fungi
Ensembl Metazoa
Ensembl Protists

The json file also gives metadata regarding these marts.

Unfortunately the metadata available for the "main" Ensembl (human, mammals,
vertibrates, etc.) was not properly structured to allow for parsing target species.
This is supposed to fixed in their next release October 2012.

Example command to retrieve arabidopsis orthologs of a list of maize genes:
./scripts/get_biomart_orthologs.pl --s1 "zea mays" --s2 "arabidopsis thaliana" --gene_list ./gene_lists/maize_id --json biomart_homologs.json

Output is two files: biomart_out.txt (results) and biomart_metadata.txt (background
information about the sources of data, such as the mart database and species
annotation versions).
